I'm sorry.
Music
At SRI, we are experimenting with a mobile
robot. We call him Shaky. Our goal is to
give Shakey some of the abilities
associated with intelligence, abilities
like planning and learning. Even though
the tasks we give Shakey seem quite
simple, the programs needed to plan and
coordinate his activities are complex. The
main purpose of our research is to learn
how to design these programs so that
robots can be employed in a variety of
tasks ranging from space exploration to
industrial automation. Shakey operates in
this experimental environmental
environment of rooms, doorways, and simple
objects.
The top lens belongs to Shakey's
television camera. He uses it to obtain
visual information about his own location
or about other objects. These walls were
made high enough so that Shakey cannot see
over them with his television camera.
camera. Shakey uses these feelers or cat
whiskers to tell him if he has bumped into
anything. He can push objects with this
push bar.
The programs controlling Shakey reside in
a large PDP-10 computer and occupy over
300,000 36-bit words of storage. Shakey
communicates with the computer over a
radio link.
We use a teletype to give instructions to
the computer programs that control Shakey.
Shakey reports back to us using the
teletype and the cathode ray tube display.
An executive program handles communication
between the experimenter and and the robot
system.
Shakey's movements are directly controlled
by a set of low-level action programs.
These programs convert orders such as roll
2.1 feet into appropriate commands to
circuits on the vehicle that control
Shakey's motors.
Two other examples of low-level actions
are pan fan, and tilt.
The low level actions provide some of the
building blocks for more complicated and
powerful programs called intermediate
level actions. One such action is go-to.
Go-to plans and executes a route to a
named goal location, marked with a cross
here, circumventing obstacles if need be.
The Go-To program plans a route by first
computing whether any obstacles lie on a
direct path. If so, points near the
obstacle are set up as sub-goals. After
Shakey computes a route, he traverses it
to the goal.
Another intermediate level action pushes a
named object, box one in this example, to
a location specified by a pair of
coordinates.
A feature of the intermediate level
actions is their ability to recover from
unforeseen accidents. Our gremlin,
Charlie, symbolizes as an agent of change
unknown to Shakey. Shakey's sensors tell
him that the box has slipped off the push
bar, but his cat whiskers tell him where
the box is so he can get behind it and
resume pushing.
level actions is
designed to try again if the first attempt
fails.
We use the push program in another
intermediate level action that blocks a
doorway with a box. We also have an
intermediate level action to take Shakey
through a doorway into an adjacent room.
Ordinarily, Shakey keeps track of his own
position by counting wheel revolutions.
This dead reckoning navigation is quite
accurate, but errors do accumulate. If an
intermediate level action needs more
precise location information, it calls on
a special picture taking routine called
landmark for orientation. Here we see
Shakey taking a picture of the nearest
reliable landmark, in this case a corner
of the room.
Shakey's view is shown on the TV monitor.
His vision programs enhance the edges of
of the picture to produce a line
representation on the cathode ray tube
display. If Shakey's dead reckoned
estimate of his position were correct, the
outline of the corner would have looked
like this. Shakey uses the new picture
information to improve his estimate of his
location. The intermediate level actions
communicate directly with the executive
program and indirectly with the vehicle.
To summarize, intermediate level actions
are pre-programmed to work on frequently
encountered tasks. They can recover from
several types of errors and accidents and
they incorporate powerful subroutines for
analyzing pictures and for navigating.
Of course, for intermediate level actions
to work, they need information about
Shakey's experimental environmental
environment. Shakey models his environment
with a list of assertions giving
information about the locations of walls,
doorways, other objects, and himself. From
his model, Shakey knows that the floor
plan of his world looks like this. The
small hand points to Shakey. His model may
be incomplete. complete. For example, it
happens that the contents of this room are
unknown.
The model may also be inaccurate. It shows
that the upper right-hand corner of room
two is empty, even though a box is in fact
present.
The executive and the action programs
communicate with the models.